Now that we know a little bit
about how clustering works,
another step in the process to
providing a good clustering solution
is to figure out how many
clusters we should have.
The number of clusters you choose will
depend on heavily on the objective of
the clustering and
the business constraints.
When I was a consultant working on a
store clustering project, our client was
working with a product allocation system
that would only allow for eight groups.
So, that's what we used as the maximum
for our target number of clusters.
The unfortunate thing with a situation
like that is that the best clustering
solution for
their store configuration could actually
have been higher than that, but
their systems just couldn't handle it.